Day 1 (2 Hours): Introduction to Computer Science and Programming
Objective: Introduce foundational concepts of computer science and programming through computational thinking, abstraction, 
and problem-solving with Scratch.

0. Introduction (5 min)
Purpose of the Course:
Teach problem-solving skills, both with and without code.
Emphasize correctness, design, and style.

Computer Science Definition: The study of computation, algorithms, and solving problems using technology.


Programming Overview: The process of creating instructions that computers follow to perform specific tasks.








1. Computational Thinking (10 min)
What is Computational Thinking?
Breaking down problems into smaller parts.
Identifying patterns and creating algorithms to solve them.
Example:
Problem: Calculate the total price of items in a shopping cart.
Decomposition: Split the items into a list.
Pattern Recognition: Sum all the item prices.
Algorithm:
-Start with a total of 0.
-Add the price of each item to the total.
-Print the total.





2. Binary and Data Representation (15 min)
Binary Numbers: Computers represent all data in binary (0s and 1s).
Bits and Bytes:
1 byte = 8 bits.
Each bit represents 2 states (0 or 1).




3. Algorithms (20 min)
What is an Algorithm?: A step-by-step process to solve a problem.
Characteristics: Correctness, Efficiency, Simplicity.
Example: Pseudocode for Finding Maximum Number:
text
code
1. Start with an empty list of numbers.  
2. Initialize `max` as the first number.  
3. Compare each number in the list:  
   - If greater than `max`, update `max`.  
4. Print `max`.  


4. Scratch Programming (25 min)
Why Scratch?: Visual programming to understand logic and problem-solving.
Core Concepts: Loops, Conditionals, and Functions (Blocks).
Example Project: Create a simple animation.
Task: Move a sprite across the screen.
Implementation:
Use a forever loop to move the sprite by 10 steps.
Add an if condition to bounce it back when it touches the edge.



5. Transition to C (25 min)
Why Start with C?:
C is a low-level language that helps understand memory and how computers work.
Concepts like variables, loops, and conditionals carry over to Python.


Hello World in C:


#include <stdio.h>

int main(void) {
    printf("Hello, World!\n");
    return 0;
}


6. Introduction to Python Installation (10 min)
Why Python?:

Beginner-friendly and widely used in data science.
Strong libraries like NumPy, Pandas, and Matplotlib.
How to Install Python:
Visit the Python website.
Download the latest version for your operating system.
Run the installer. Ensure "Add Python to PATH" is checked.
Verify installation:
Open the terminal and type:
bash
Copy code
python --version